# Revenue Trends Analysis

## Table of Contents

- [Project Overview](#project-overview) 
- [Data Sources](#data-sources)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Data Cleaning/Preparation](#data-cleaningpreparation)
- [Exploratory Data Analysis](#exploratory-data-analysis)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Results/Findings](#resultsfindings)
- [Recommendations](#recommendations)
- [Limitations](#limitations)

### Project Overview

This data analysis project seeks to provide insights into the revenue generated by the different hotels in different cities in India for three months. By analyzing various aspects of the sales data, we aim to identify trends, make data-driven recommendations, and gain a deeper understanding of their performance.

### Data Sources

Revenue Trends: The primary dataset used for this analysis is the "Revenue_data.csv" file, containing comprehensive information about each revenue generated by these hotels.

### Tools

- Excel - Data Cleaning
  - [Download_here](https://microsoft.com)
- PowerBI - Creating reports

### Data Cleaning/Preparation

In the initial data preparation stage, we carried out the following tasks:
1. Data loading and inspection.
2. Resolving missing values.
3. Data cleaning and formatting.

### Exploratory Data Analysis

EDA involved exploring the sales data to answer key questions, such as:

- What is the overall revenue trend?
- Which medium generated the highest revenue?
- What is their peak period for generating revenue?

  ### Data Analysis

  Include some interesting code/features worked with

  ```PowerBI
  SELECT * FROM table1
  WHERE cond = 2;
  ```

  ### Results/Findings

  The analysis results are summarized as follows:
  1. These hotels used a fixed pricing system based on the three-month data.
  2. Their revenue didn't increase during peak season.
  3. When you filter and sort the occupancy percentage from lowest to highest, coincidentally, the ratings get filtered and sorted also which means they are not working on their ratings and reviews.
 
  ### Recommendations

  Based on the analysis, we recommend the following actions:
  - Focus on online reviews and ratings  to generate more revenue.
  - Invest in marketing and promotions during peak seasons to maximize revenue.
  - Implement a customer segmentation strategy to target high-level customers effectively.
 
  ### Limitations

  I had to remove week 32 row because the data was incomplete and that would have affected the accuracy of my conclusions from the analysis. there are still a few outliers even after the omissions but even then we can still see there is a positive correlation between both ADR and occupancy.


